.TH s2pexec 1
.SH NAME
s2pproto \- SCSI2Pi custom SCSI command executor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s2pproto
[\fB\--scsi-target/-i\fR \fIID[:LUN]\fR]
[\fB\--board-id/-B\fR \fIBOARD_ID\fR]
[\fB\--log-level/-L\fR \fILOG_LEVEL\fR]
{\fB\--input-file/-f\fR \fIFILE\fR]
{\fB\--output-file/-F\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\--binary-input\fR]
[\fB\--binary-output\fR]
[\fB\--text-input\fR]
[\fB\--text-output\fR]
[\fB\--help/-H\fR]
[\fB\--version/-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B s2pproto
wraps protobuf input data into a custom SCSI2Pi SCSI command. The input data must be a legal command defined in the SCSI2Pi protobuf interface. See the file s2p_interface.proto for details.

.SH NOTES

.B s2pproto
helps with advanced testing. It requires either two connected PiSCSI/RaSCSI boards or an in-process bus. The board s2pexec is running on must be a FULLSPEC board because s2pexec requires SCSI initiator support.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \--scsi-target/-i\fI " "\fIID[:LUN]
SCSI ID and optional LUN (0-31) of the target device.
.TP
.BR \--board-id/-B\fI " "\fIBOARD_ID
SCSI ID used by s2pexec. If not specified, s2pexec will use the board (initiator) ID 7.
.TP
.BR \--log-level/-L\fI " " \fILOG_LEVEL
Set the log level (trace, debug, info, warning, error, off). The default log level is 'info'.
.TP
.BR \--input-file/-f\fI " "\fIFILE
The protobuf data input file, by default in JSON format.
.TP
.BR \--output-file/-F\fI " "\fIFILE
The protobuf data output file, by default in JSON format. If not specified JSON data will be displayed on stdout.
.TP
.BR \--binary-input\fI
Signals that the input file is in protobuf binary format instead of JSON.
.TP
.BR \--binary-output\fI
Generate a protobuf binary format output file instead of JSON for the results.
.TP
.BR \--text-input\fI
Signals that the input file is in protobuf text format instead of JSON.
.TP
.BR \--text-output\fI
Generate a protobuf text format file instead of JSON for the results.
.TP
.BR \--help/-H\fI
Show a help text.
.TP
.BR \--version/-v\fI
Show the s2pproto version.

.SH SEE ALSO
s2p(1), s2pctl(1), s2pdump(1), s2pexec(1)
 
Also see <https://www.scsi2pi.net> and <https://github.com/uweseimet/scsi2pi>.
